======= CV & Biography =======

"CV with complete publication list": "cv.pdf"

===== Short bio =====

<img src="fig/hpl-sitting2b-face.jpg" width=160 align="right" style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 20px;"> Hans
Petter Langtangen is the director of Center for Biomedical Computing,
a Norwegian Center of Excellence at Simula Research Laboratory, and a
professor of computer science at the University of Oslo. His research
concerns numerical methods and software tools for continuum mechanical
problems. Langtangen has published more than 120 peer-reviewed papers
in journals and books. He is the author of three best-selling
textbooks and an a co-author/co-editor of four books.  Langtangen has
been an active developer of open source and commercial software
systems for computational sciences. He is a member of the European
Academy of Sciences and and the Norwegian Academy of Science and
Letters.  He serves on the editorial board of five leading
international journals and acts as Editor-in-Chief of SIAM Journal on
Scientific Computing.


===== Long bio =====

<img src="fig/hpl-standing1.jpg" width=250 align="right" style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 20px;">
Hans Petter Langtangen is director of Center for Biomedical Compuating
at Simula Research Laboratory, a Norwegian Center of Excellence doing
inter-disciplinary research in the intersection of mathematics,
physics, computer science, geoscience and medicine.  Langtangen is on
80% leave from a position as professor at the
Department of Informatics, University of Oslo.

Langtangen received his PhD from the Department of Mathematics,
University of Oslo, in 1989, and then worked at SINTEF before being
hired as assistant professor at the University of Oslo in 1991.  After
being promoted to full professor of mechanics at the Department of
Mathematics in 1998, he moved in 1999 to a professorship in computer
science.  In the period 1999-2002 he also held an adjunct professor
position at the Department of Scientific Computing at Uppsala
University in Sweden.  The Simula Research Laboratory was formed in
2001, and Langtangen has since then worked with research and
management at this laboratory. The scientific computing activity at
Simula was awarded the highest grade, *Excellent*, by five panels
of top-ranked international scientists in the period 2001-2012.

Langtangen's research is inter-disciplinary and involves continuum
mechanical modeling, applied mathematics, stochastic uncertainty
quantification, and scientific computing, with applications to
biomedicine and geoscience in particular. He has also been occupied
with developing and distributing scientific software to make the
research results more widely accessible and help accelerate research
elsewhere. For over three decades he has been very active with
teaching and supervision.

The scientific production consists of 4 authored books, 4
co-authored/co-edited
books, about 60 papers in international journals, about 60
peer-reviewed book chapters and conference papers, and over 130
scientific presentations.  The publications cover fluid flow,
elasticity, wave propagation, heat transfer, finite element methods,
uncertainty quantification, and implementation techniques for
scientific software.  Langtangen is on the editorial board of 7
journals and serves as Editor-in-Chief of the leading SIAM Journal on
Scientific Computing.  He is also a member of the Norwegian Academy of
Science and Letters and the European Academy of Science.
