======= Teaching =======

#FIGURE: [fig/hpl4.jpg, width=785]

One of my major and most rewarding interests the last 10+ years is the
integration of programming and simulation in basic science education.
This effort is a contribution to the University's famous,
award-winning "Computing in Science Education":
"http://www.mn.uio.no/english/about/collaboration/cse/" project.

Traditionally, science courses with much use of mathematical models
applied pen and papir techniques to solve the mathematical
problems. This is still so in most courses in the world. At the
University of Oslo, however, we try to use the computer to help us
with the mathematics, because this is the way one does mathematics
today in industry and research.  Students learn to program and solve
mathematical problems through programming from day 1 in the course
"INF1100 Introduction to programming with scientific applications":
"http://www.uio.no/studier/emner/matnat/ifi/INF1100/index-eng.html"
based on my book "A Primer on Scientific Programming with Python":
"http://www.amazon.com/Scientific-Programming-Computational-Science-Engineering/dp/3642549586/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1423138725&sr=1-1&keywords=langtangen". Later
science courses follow up with real-world problem solving through
programming. For example, our multi-variate calculus and linear
algebra courses in mathematics are fully integrated with numerical
methods and programming. While most other universities utilize
computer-based mathematical methods at the master's or Ph.D.~levels,
we offer a unique computational approach from the very beginning of
the bachelor studies.

===== Current courses =====

 * Fall: "INF1100 Introduction to programming with scientific applications": "http://www.uio.no/studier/emner/matnat/ifi/INF1100/index-eng.html"
 * Fall: "INF5620 Numerical solution of partial differential equtions": "http://www.uio.no/studier/emner/matnat/ifi/INF5620/index-eng.html"

<img src="fig/uio_logo_trans.png" width=100 style="box-shadow: 0px 0px 0px 0px #93a1a1; margin: 20px 0px 20px 20px;">